# Harvard-Final-Project Chat App

## Requirements
 Requirements are stored in required.txt. This will require docker to run on a Windows machine. Here is the command to run the docker container: `docker run -p 6379:6379 -d redis:5`.

## Overview
This project is a chat app that utilises websockets for a fast and responsive experience. Users can add people as friends by their username, and setup rooms with their friends for private text messaging.

## Jusitfication
I believe this project satisfies the distinctiveness and complexity requirements as I have utilised an advanced library "django-channels" to create websocket connections. Furthermore, the general concept and UI has not been based on any previous projects and thus is unique.

## Files
All the standard files generated by Django contain what you would expect so I will not discuss what they contain.

#### chat/
`consumers.py` Logic for sending and receiving chat data through the websockets.

`routing.py` Specifies url path to initiate websocket protocol, similarly to `urls.py`.

`utils.py` Helper methods for serialising one or more message objects.

#### chat/templates/chat/
`layout.html` The Django HTML content for the index url.

`old_layout.html` The Django HTML content for login, logout, register.

#### chat/static/chat/
`friendHandler.js` Functionality for sending friend requests, accepting requests and rejecting requests. Also shows bootstrap alerts based on the response from the server.

`nav.js` This file is used for the `old_layout.html` to change the active button in the nav depending on the page.

`roomHandler.js` Functionality to allow users to create rooms with participants. Also shows bootstrap alerts based on the response from the server.

`ws.js` Handles all websocket related functionality and displaying messages from rooms.


#### media/
This folder contains one file `default.png` which specifies the profile picture for the user. Sub-directory `profile_pics` is not visible but will be generated and store currently active profile pictures. Django-cleanup will remove old pictures.

#### users/
`signals.py` Contains signals for user-specific actions.

`forms.py` Contains forms for user-specific actions.

#### users/templates/users/
`login.html` HTML content for the login page.

`logout.html` HTML content for the logout page.

`profile.html` HTML content for the profile page.

`register.html` HTML content for the register page.